---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Retrospective"
comments: true
date:   2018-12-23 12:00:00 -0500
categories: general
draft: false
---

A quick retrospective on 2018. It was a pretty eventful year.

Some of the highlights:
* I became a parent to twin girls in June. I took a 6 month paternity leave to spend more time with family. Grateful to my employers (Wattpad) for a very generous parental leave policy.
* My parents immigrated to Canada earlier in the year after a 7 year long sponsorship process. 
* I created a better financial plan for my family and changed our overall investment strategy, moving away from our financial advisor.
* Started a writing habit everyday since August. Since then - I've written 121 posts and going strong!
* I'm really proud of the work that the team at Wattpad is doing. We've had a banner year and are firing on all cylinders.

Some of the lowlights:
* There's a lot more uncertainty about the future. The political, social and financial structures of the world are unravelling. I'm spending too much time in the short term news cycle.
* A few extended bouts of anxiety, self doubt and impostor syndrome in the middle of the year slowed me down. Thanks to all the people that helped me through those times.
* Parenting killed all my good sleep and gym habits - not surprising, but will be changing this in 2019.

At the beginning of the year, I chose not to create any specific resolutions except to develop better daily habits - no working from home, read more regularly, take care of your body. I feel good about where I ended up.